{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf820
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue-Light;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red22\green25\blue31;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c11373\c12941\c16078;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs48 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Somebody asked Facebook, "What does 'kill them with kindness' mean?" \
\
Here in Westbrook, Maine, there's a little Middle Eastern store. Right after we moved here, I popped in to buy sesame tahini. Last week, I drove by and the front windows had been smashed. \
\
Way to go, tough guy. You showed those Radical Islamist windows who's boss. They'll think twice before selling their Radical Islamist sesame tahini to anyone again. \
\
...except they won't. They're not going anywhere. The other day I popped in again to tell them I was sorry they had been victims of violence, and ask if there was anything I could do to help. The cashier didn't speak great english, but he was clearly moved; he shook my hand for like a minute and gave me a traditional candy on the way out. \
\
Today, some other tough guy takes it out on a baseball practice. Way to go, tough guy. You showed those Evil Republicans who have dedicated their lives to serving through government... except you didn't. Gabby Giffords didn't quit. Steve Scalise isn't going to quit. \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 That's how you show a bully they have failed - when they knock you down, you get up and look them in the eyes. \cf2 \cb3 \
\
Republican, Democrat, Muslim, Christian: these aren't the opposites. The opposites are fear and love. Fear uses hateful language and violence because it knows it's too weak to work otherwise. Love gets up and keeps doing whatever it was doing before, because what else are you gonna do? It's the thing you love, it's in you and it has to come out. \
\
Let your heart fill with love. Feel it make you\cf2 \cb3  strong and brave and peacefully unstoppable. \cf2 \cb3 Forgive those who have trespassed against you. \
\
Destroy the evil in your opponents' hearts with love. \
\
Kill them with kindness. }