{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf830
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs40 \cf0 Advanced technology, magical thinking, and fear of unemployment, together at last.\
\
Predicting the future has always been a tough gig, but I see too many articles lately like this one that just vomit out facts and statistics in "shock and awe" fashion. These articles seem to reflect the hopes, dreams, and especially the fears of the author more than reality. \
\
For example, the author states in no uncertain terms that self-driving cars (SDCs) will mean no one will own a car, and there will be 90-95% less cars in existence because of this.  However, a couple of bullet points later, the author then suggests that if people are able to work while they commute, they'll move out to a spacious home in the beautiful countryside and take a SDC into the city. These two trends can't coexist simultaneously - if you're commuting 60-90 minutes each way (which plenty of people do already), then waving a magic wand and making the vehicles autonomous does nothing to reduce the number of cars. The number of cars is only reduced when people switch from individual vehicles to public transportation, including car sharing and ride-on-demand systems.\
\
Speaking of magic wands, the author predicts the insurance industry will cease to exist because SDCs will be much safer than human driven ones. No doubt, SDCs will be safer than human drivers in the near future. Problem: there's no point we'll hit where all vehicles become self-driving instantly. \
\
There's a science fiction fantasy of this "George Jetson" highway packed with SDCs going 150mph inches away from each other. Back in the real world, you're going to have SDCs mixed in with human-driven cars of all vintages. Here's another glitch: what happens when traffic backs up on the onramp? In LA, freeways basically became just city streets for 35-40 years now. The maximum rate at which you can get cars off the freeway and onto local roads eventually dictates the maximum rate you can get cars through the city. SDCs are not going to miraculously dispel traffic jams, ever. They will allow you to work while in a traffic jam... but, spoiler alert, public transportation already supports this feature at a fraction of the cost (personal and ecological). \
\
The author mentions computers can deliver legal advice in seconds with 90% accuracy. The author fails to mention that *knowing which question to ask* is actually the skill that you pay the lawyer for, not the process of looking it up. \
\
Likewise, I'm not really interested in Doctor Mainframe breaking a cancer diagnosis to me. Nor, working in tech as long as I have, do I trust any system to have final, unregulated oversight over my health care. I will never stop paying a human being to be my expert sherpa to the dark heart of health care. \
\
The author mentions 3D printed shoes perfectly crafted for your feet. I already have perfect shoes. They're called Red Wing boots, and they're made by human beings in Minnesota. They're sold in Red Wing brick-and-mortar stores where a human being with expertise and rapport talks to you about your needs and helps you choose the best pair. They cost about twice as much as disposable plastic shoes from Asia, and I expect them to last twenty years (I have a pair of Vasque boots that are 25 years old, still going strong on their third resole, now semi-retired to dirty-job duty). \
\
Then, the AI bugaboo. Two problems.\
\
The author states a form of Moore's Law, that computers become exponentially more powerful every year. Problem one: for 10 weeks after my niece was born, she grew at an exponential rate, but now a year old, she has not reached the size of Manhattan. Electronic computers are about 75 years old. Their power grew linearly for 20-30 years, as engineers struggled with the basic challenges. Exponential growth started around the time Moore made his comment (dubbed a "law" only in casual reference). However processing power is dependent on chip miniaturization, and chips have gotten so tiny, they're starting to approach the size of silicon molecules. Can't make something smaller than its parts! Quantum computers have promise to greatly increase computing power, but that industry is about where electronic computers were 75 years ago: just trying to get the dang things runnin'. \
\
Last, the misunderstanding problem. The author states "Computers become exponentially better in understanding the world. This year, a computer beat the best Go player in the world, 10 years earlier than expected." Playing a game is not at all the same as understanding the world. Games - even exceptionally complex ones like Go and Chess - have clearly defined rules, boundaries, and more importantly, intentions. \
\
It's not arguable that computers are better at chess than humans. So what now? Do we give up playing chess because there's no possibility we can win? Seems a bit unsportsmanlike, doesn't it? Here's some things a computer can't do: Appreciate the elegance of a unsuspected move. Grasp the insight it gives into the subtle essence of the game itself. Love the game.\
\
Here's something else computers can't do: get out of a vehicle, move some debris from a doorway, open a door and enter a building. Those are the first four of eight steps from the DARPA robotics challenge that no robot could complete. Google "darpa robot challenge fail" to see just how epically they could not complete it. \
\
Andrew Ng, who headed up machine learning at Google, compared worrying about "evil AI" to worrying about overpopulation on Mars. Maybe a problem someday - but not as pressing as half a million truckers unemployed by self-driving trucks in the next 5-10 years. I don't know about  biohazard zombies or terminator robots, but the pissed-off army of the unemployed are already here. Worry about them.\
\
We are in the middle of an era of change unprecedented in human history. The change is so rapid and massive it's impossible to predict. What doesn't change is human nature. We care about our friends and family, and maybe some other people. We care about what other people think about us (including those who want others to think they don't care). We want security around our basic needs, and a sense of purpose to make those providing those basic needs worth it. \
\
To paraphrase first Bob Marley and then a stereotypical high school guidance counselor, have no fear for advanced technology. Make understanding human nature your job, and you'll never be unemployed in your life. }