{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf830
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11160\viewh10600\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf0 I've heard it said a lot lately that if you're not outraged, you're not paying attention. I felt that way for a long time, but friends, I have to tell you that attitude nearly killed me. \
\
In order to explain, let me give some background. \
\
I have a family history of depression. Both my parents have it, as did three of my four grandparents. \
\
Note I didn't say I "suffer from" or "struggle with" depression. It's just one facet of my overall health. Other people inherit bad knees or high blood pressure; I got depression. \
\
Like bad knees or high blood pressure, it's something I've had to learn to manage. I get plenty of exercise and plenty of rest. I eat healthy and drink lots of water. A few years ago, I committed to 20 minutes of daily meditation (which has been worth it). I see a therapist when I need to. \
\
When something is bothering me, I force myself to talk about it. Which brings me to Monday. \
\
Monday morning, we heard about another senseless act of mass violence. As if that wasn't enough, Monday afternoon brought the news of Tom Petty's untimely passing. \
\
Amy and I were out walking the dogs that afternoon, and she said what a lot of people feel: with the hurricanes, racist protests, North Korean nukes and everything else, it seems like the world is hurtling towards disaster. \
\
But there has never been a safer time in human history. In the US, crime rates are at lows not seen since the late '50s, which itself was a historically safe time. There are fewer wars in progress now than *ever* before in human history. Ever! Child mortality prevention initiatives have reduced the rate from 14 million a year in the 1990s to 5M/year today. \
\
}