{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf830
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11080\viewh12900\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs34 \cf0 Please learn from my mistake: a two part PSA.\
\
Part one, the gross part: don't remove a tick yourself. I just got out of two days in the hospital on IV antibiotics due to a tick bite. Not Lyme or any internal infection, I got cellulitis (infection of the skin) from bacteria in the bite wound itself. \
\
After I found it, I read online that the best way to remove one is with tweezers, grabbing it by the head and so forth. But the little scamp was *awfully* fond of me, just couldn't bear to part, and left me something to remember him by. I cleaned the wound with alcohol, applied neosporin and bandaids for a few days, and it seemed like I'd get off scott free. \
\
But two weeks later, a rash came out of nowhere, got ugly and spread like crazy. Two days after that I was in the ER with a temp of 102, chills, splitting headache, shortness of breath. From now on, tick bites are in the same ER-mandatory category as head injuries, chest pain and poop blood. \
\
Part two, in two sub-parts: be grateful for breathing. I really, really love breathing. It's arguably my favorite thing to do. I can't imagine living without it, and I just never get bored of it. \
\
If you love something that much, you want to take lessons and practice so you get good at it. As I see it, this is essentially what yoga boils down to: breathing practice. Sometimes things happen in your life that seem more important than breathing, and you need to be able to remember - in the moment - that is not correct. The stretching and balance exercises in yoga actually function as distractions - the goal, to remember to breathe normally while you're under stress.\
\
Lying in the hospital bed in pain, tubes in my arm, pressure cuffs on my legs to prevent blood clots, the incessant, aggressive noises, in a room uncomfortably similar to the one where I watched my brother slip away, it was very difficult not to be terrified. \
\
Instead, I enjoyed that I was breathing. In? Good. Out? Excellent. Again? Don't mind if I do! You'd be amazed how much time you can annihilate while practicing breathing. Minutes and hours whiz by just like seconds. What little attention I didn't focus on my breath went to where my toes  touched each other, the angle of my ankles, the space between my ears and my neck. \
\
The perceptions inside my ears don't have to be scary sounds; they are only sensations caused by air touching them, no different than the air whispering over my upper lip as I breathe. I get to choose how to interpret those sensations. The voice on the hallway intercom announcing a "code" has nothing to do with me. In fact, it's not a even a voice, it's a simulation of a voice coming from the cone of a speaker vibrating. The person the voice belongs to is far away and doesn't know I'm here. \
\
It's not the only time breathing practice has saved me, either. In 2011, I was the only person working in the office on a Saturday when I got trapped in the elevator. The call button worked and the maintenance guys  got me out, but it took a couple hours. Only breathing practice kept me calm. \
\
So I can't recommend yoga enough, to any and every body who breathes. Like any other human activity, some people get way into yoga and get obnoxious about it; but beginner yoga classes are reliably the most non-judgmental environments I've ever been in. One of the principles of yoga is only you can tell what your body is capable of, so no one else can ever demand that you perform any particular exercise. In fact, lying flat on your back doing nothing but breathing is totally a legit pose (savasana). You'd be surprised how hard it is just to lay completely still for 20 or 30 minutes. Almost as hard as getting over the notion that "yoga is for old ladies" or "yoga isn't for Christians" or whatever abstract, intangible concept keeps you from trying it. \
\
But - back to subpart one - if I can't convince you to try yoga (or meditation/mindfulness), at least be grateful for your breath. No matter how rotten you think things are, you can always have a delightful lungful of delicious air. Until you can't. Why not enjoy it while you have the chance? Lots of former people would very much like to just once more have the opportunity we're blessed with several times a minute, all friggin day. \
\
Breathe, baby, breathe!}